[Transit VPCs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/latest/aws-vpc-connectivity-options/transit-vpc-option.html) can create connectivity between VPCs by a different means than VPC peering by introducing a hub and spoke design for inter-VPC connectivity. In a transit VPC network, one central VPC (the hub VPC) connects with every other VPC (spoke VPC) through a VPN connection typically leveraging BGP over [IPsec](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPsec). The central VPC contains [Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/) (Amazon EC2) instances running software appliances that route incoming traffic to their destinations using the VPN overlay. Transit VPC peering has the following advantages:

- Transitive routing is enabled using the overlay VPN network — allowing for a hub and spoke design
- When using third-party vendor software on the EC2 instance in the hub transit VPC, vendor functionality around advanced security (layer 7 firewall/Intrusion Prevention System (IPS)/Intrusion Detection System (IDS) ) can be used. If customers are using the same software on-premises, they benefit from a unified operational/monitoring experience.
- The Transit VPC architecture enables connectivity that may be desired in some use-cases. For example, you can connect an AWS GovCloud instance and Commercial Region VPC or a Transit Gateway instance to a Transit VPC and enable inter-VPC connectivity between the two Regions. Evaluate your security and compliance requirements when considering this option. For additional security, you may deploy a centralized inspection model using design patterns described later in this whitepaper.

Transit VPC comes with its own challenges, such as higher costs for running third-party vendor virtual appliances on EC2 based on the instance size/family, limited throughput per VPN connection (up to 1.25 Gbps per VPN tunnel), and additional conﬁguration, management and resiliency overhead (customers are responsible for managing the HA and redundancy of EC2 instances running the third-party vendor virtual appliances).

## VPC peering vs. Transit VPC vs. Transit Gateway
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/latest/building-scalable-secure-multi-vpc-network-infrastructure/transit-vpc-solution.html#peering-vs

